README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">
	<br>
	<br>
	<img width="100%" src="https://michel-kraemer.github.io/citeproc-java/images/logo.svg" alt="citeproc-java">
	<br>
	<br>
	<br>
</h1>

> citeproc-java is a [Citation Style Language (CSL)](http://citationstyles.org/)
> processor for Java. It interprets CSL styles and generates citations and
> bibliographies.

[![Apache License, Version 2.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache--2.0-blue.svg)](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0) [![Actions Status](https://github.com/michel-kraemer/citeproc-java/workflows/Java%20CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/michel-kraemer/citeproc-java/actions)

Documentation
-------------

The full documentation is available at the project's website:  
https://michel-kraemer.github.io/citeproc-java/

Notes on used components
------------------------

### citeproc-js

The library includes [citeproc-js](https://bitbucket.org/fbennett/citeproc-js/wiki/Home),
a CSL processor written in JavaScript. citeproc-js has been created
by Frank G. Bennett and is licensed under the
[Common Public Attribution License Version 1.0](http://bitbucket.org/fbennett/citeproc-js/src/tip/LICENSE).

### Name Parser

The BibTeX name parser's grammar is based on the one found
in the [bibtex-ruby](https://github.com/inukshuk/bibtex-ruby).
The original grammar is licensed under GPL v3. It has been
converted to ANTLR and is released here under the Apache License
2.0 by permission of the original author Sylvester Keil.

### BibTeX Converter

The BibTeX to CSL converter is based on the mapping used in
[Docear](http://www.docear.org) as [presented by Joeran Beel](http://www.docear.org/2012/08/08/docear4word-mapping-bibtex-fields-and-types-with-the-citation-style-language).

Docear is released under the GPLv2 but its code
[may also be reused](http://www.docear.org/software/licence/)
in projects licensed under Apache License 2.0. The mapping is released here
under the Apache License 2.0 by permission of Joeran Beel, Docear.

### Smart quotes

The algorithm that produces typographically correct quotation marks and
apostrophes is based on [smartquotes.js](https://smartquotes.js.org/) written
by Kelly Martin and released under the MIT license. The code has been
translated to Java and improved to support more edge cases as well as
multiple languages.

License
-------

citeproc-java is licensed under the
[Apache License, Version 2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

Commit message:

Use Alphanum algorithm for sorting

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">
	<br>
	<br>
	<img width="100%" src="https://michel-kraemer.github.io/citeproc-java/images/logo.svg" alt="citeproc-java">
	<br>
	<br>
	<br>
</h1>

> citeproc-java is a [Citation Style Language (CSL)](http://citationstyles.org/)
> processor for Java. It interprets CSL styles and generates citations and
> bibliographies.

[![Apache License, Version 2.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache--2.0-blue.svg)](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0) [![Actions Status](https://github.com/michel-kraemer/citeproc-java/workflows/Java%20CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/michel-kraemer/citeproc-java/actions)

Documentation
-------------

The full documentation is available at the project's website:  
https://michel-kraemer.github.io/citeproc-java/

Notes on used components
------------------------

### citeproc-js

The library includes [citeproc-js](https://bitbucket.org/fbennett/citeproc-js/wiki/Home),
a CSL processor written in JavaScript. citeproc-js has been created
by Frank G. Bennett and is licensed under the
[Common Public Attribution License Version 1.0](http://bitbucket.org/fbennett/citeproc-js/src/tip/LICENSE).

### Name Parser

The BibTeX name parser's grammar is based on the one found
in the [bibtex-ruby](https://github.com/inukshuk/bibtex-ruby).
The original grammar is licensed under GPL v3. It has been
converted to ANTLR and is released here under the Apache License
2.0 by permission of the original author Sylvester Keil.

### BibTeX Converter

The BibTeX to CSL converter is based on the mapping used in
[Docear](http://www.docear.org) as [presented by Joeran Beel](http://www.docear.org/2012/08/08/docear4word-mapping-bibtex-fields-and-types-with-the-citation-style-language).

Docear is released under the GPLv2 but its code
[may also be reused](http://www.docear.org/software/licence/)
in projects licensed under Apache License 2.0. The mapping is released here
under the Apache License 2.0 by permission of Joeran Beel, Docear.

### Smart Quotes

The algorithm that produces typographically correct quotation marks and
apostrophes is based on [smartquotes.js](https://smartquotes.js.org/) written
by Kelly Martin and released under the MIT license. The code has been
translated to Java and improved to support more edge cases as well as
multiple languages.

### Alphanum Algorithm

citeproc-java is able to sort citations in a natural, language-sensitive way.
The implementation of this behaviour is loosely based on the Alphanum algorithm
by [Dave Koelle](http://www.davekoelle.com/alphanum.html) and the
[Java implementation](http://www.davekoelle.com/files/AlphanumComparator.java)
released under the MIT license. However, it has been extended to use a
`java.text.Collator` for locale-sensitive comparison, and it is also able to
compare arbitrarily large numbers.

License
-------

citeproc-java is licensed under the
[Apache License, Version 2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
