download/index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Download citeproc-java
---

Everything you need to use citeproc-java has already been prepared
for you in the following binary package:

<div class="download-section">
<a href="https://github.com/michel-kraemer/citeproc-java/releases/download/1.0.0/citeproc-java-tool-1.0.0.zip" class="btn btn-primary btn-lg download-link-main"><i class="icon-download-alt"></i> Download citeproc-java 1.0.0 (binaries)</a>
<a href="https://github.com/michel-kraemer/citeproc-java/releases/download/1.0.0/citeproc-java-1.0.0-javadoc.jar" class="btn btn-default btn-lg download-link-main"><i class="icon-download-alt"></i> JavaDoc</a>
<a href="https://github.com/michel-kraemer/citeproc-java/archive/1.0.0.tar.gz" class="btn btn-default btn-lg download-link-main"><i class="icon-download-alt"></i> Source code</a>
</div>

Alternatively, you can download citeproc-java from Maven central:

[http://central.maven.org/maven2/de/undercouch/citeproc-java/1.0.0/](http://central.maven.org/maven2/de/undercouch/citeproc-java/1.0.0/)

The library has dependencies to [JBibTeX](https://github.com/jbibtex/jbibtex),
[ANTLR](http://www.antlr.org/), and [Apache Commons Lang](http://commons.apache.org/proper/commons-lang/).

I highly recommend using a build tool such as [Maven](http://maven.apache.org/)
or [Gradle](http://www.gradle.org/) to manage your application dependencies.
You can add the following snippet to your build file:

<ul class="nav nav-tabs" id="installing-tab">
  <li class="active"><a href="#installing-maven" data-toggle="tab" class="no-scroll">Maven</a></li>
  <li><a href="#installing-gradle" data-toggle="tab" class="no-scroll">Gradle</a></li>
</ul>

<div class="tab-content">

<div class="tab-pane active" id="installing-maven">

{% highlight xml %}
<dependencies>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>de.undercouch</groupId>
    <artifactId>citeproc-java</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.0</version>
  </dependency>
</dependencies>
{% endhighlight %}

</div> <!-- tab-pane installing-maven -->

<div class="tab-pane" id="installing-gradle">

{% highlight groovy %}
repositories {
    mavenCentral()
}

dependencies {
    compile 'de.undercouch:citeproc-java:1.0.0'
}
{% endhighlight %}

</div> <!-- tab-pane installing-gradle -->

</div> <!-- tab-content -->

### Installing CSL Styles and locales

In order to use citeproc-java you need three things: the library itself,
the Citation Style Language Styles, and the locales. The [binary bundle](#top)
includes all what you need. However, if you don't use the binary
package (e.g. because you're installing citeproc-java via Maven) you
will need to download the CSL styles and locales.

<div class="alert alert-success" markdown="1">
Please note that without these files the citeproc-java library alone
will be rather useless.
</div>

You can download the styles and locales from the following GitHub repositories:

[https://github.com/citation-style-language/styles](https://github.com/citation-style-language/styles)

[https://github.com/citation-style-language/locales](https://github.com/citation-style-language/locales)

For convenience we provide them as Maven artifacts through
the Sonatype OSS repository. The snapshots are updated daily, so you'll always
get the latest styles and locales.

Add the following snippet to your build file:

<ul class="nav nav-tabs" id="installing-csl-snapshots-tab">
  <li class="active"><a href="#installing-csl-snapshots-maven" data-toggle="tab" class="no-scroll">Maven</a></li>
  <li><a href="#installing-csl-snapshots-gradle" data-toggle="tab" class="no-scroll">Gradle</a></li>
</ul>

<div class="tab-content">

<div class="tab-pane active" id="installing-csl-snapshots-maven">

{% highlight xml %}
<repositories>
  <repository>
    <id>oss-snapshots-repo</id>
    <name>Sonatype OSS Maven Repository</name>
    <url>https://oss.sonatype.org/content/groups/public</url>
    <snapshots>
      <enabled>true</enabled>
      <updatePolicy>always</updatePolicy>
    </snapshots>
  </repository>
</repositories>

<dependencies>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.citationstyles</groupId>
    <artifactId>styles</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.1-SNAPSHOT</version>
  </dependency>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.citationstyles</groupId>
    <artifactId>locales</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.1-SNAPSHOT</version>
  </dependency>
</dependencies>
{% endhighlight %}

</div> <!-- tab-pane installing-csl-snapshots-maven -->

<div class="tab-pane" id="installing-csl-snapshots-gradle">

{% highlight groovy %}
repositories {
    maven {
        url 'https://oss.sonatype.org/content/groups/public'
    }
}

dependencies {
    compile 'org.citationstyles:styles:1.0.1-SNAPSHOT'
    compile 'org.citationstyles:locales:1.0.1-SNAPSHOT'
}
{% endhighlight %}

</div> <!-- tab-pane installing-csl-snapshots-gradle -->

</div> <!-- tab-content -->

I highly recommend using the snapshots of the styles and locales as
these are compiled against CSL 1.0.1 and updated daily. However, if
you need a stable version you may refer to the old CSL 1.0 styles and
locales. They are available at Maven central.

<ul class="nav nav-tabs" id="installing-csl-tab">
  <li class="active"><a href="#installing-csl-maven" data-toggle="tab" class="no-scroll">Maven</a></li>
  <li><a href="#installing-csl-gradle" data-toggle="tab" class="no-scroll">Gradle</a></li>
</ul>

<div class="tab-content">

<div class="tab-pane active" id="installing-csl-maven">

{% highlight xml %}
<dependencies>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.citationstyles</groupId>
    <artifactId>styles</artifactId>
    <version>1.0</version>
  </dependency>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.citationstyles</groupId>
    <artifactId>locales</artifactId>
    <version>1.0</version>
  </dependency>
</dependencies>
{% endhighlight %}

</div> <!-- tab-pane installing-csl-maven -->

<div class="tab-pane" id="installing-csl-gradle">

{% highlight groovy %}
repositories {
    mavenCentral()
}

dependencies {
    compile 'org.citationstyles:styles:1.0'
    compile 'org.citationstyles:locales:1.0'
}
{% endhighlight %}

</div> <!-- tab-pane installing-csl-gradle -->

</div> <!-- tab-content -->

Commit message:

Add instructions on how to install citeproc-java with homebrew

download/index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Download citeproc-java
---

Everything you need to use citeproc-java has already been prepared
for you in the following binary package:

<div class="download-section">
<a href="https://github.com/michel-kraemer/citeproc-java/releases/download/1.0.0/citeproc-java-tool-1.0.0.zip" class="btn btn-primary btn-lg download-link-main"><i class="icon-download-alt"></i> Download citeproc-java 1.0.0 (binaries)</a>
<a href="https://github.com/michel-kraemer/citeproc-java/releases/download/1.0.0/citeproc-java-1.0.0-javadoc.jar" class="btn btn-default btn-lg download-link-main"><i class="icon-download-alt"></i> JavaDoc</a>
<a href="https://github.com/michel-kraemer/citeproc-java/archive/1.0.0.tar.gz" class="btn btn-default btn-lg download-link-main"><i class="icon-download-alt"></i> Source code</a>
</div>

### Installing with Homebrew

On macOS you can install citeproc-java with the [Homebrew package manager](http://brew.sh).

    brew tap michel-kraemer/citeproc-java
    brew install citeproc-java

### Installing the library for development

You can download the citeproc-java library from Maven central to include it into
your own application.

[http://central.maven.org/maven2/de/undercouch/citeproc-java/1.0.0/](http://central.maven.org/maven2/de/undercouch/citeproc-java/1.0.0/)

The library has dependencies to [JBibTeX](https://github.com/jbibtex/jbibtex),
[ANTLR](http://www.antlr.org/), and [Apache Commons Lang](http://commons.apache.org/proper/commons-lang/).

I highly recommend using a build tool such as [Maven](http://maven.apache.org/)
or [Gradle](http://www.gradle.org/) to manage your application dependencies.
You can add the following snippet to your build file:

<ul class="nav nav-tabs" id="installing-tab">
  <li class="active"><a href="#installing-maven" data-toggle="tab" class="no-scroll">Maven</a></li>
  <li><a href="#installing-gradle" data-toggle="tab" class="no-scroll">Gradle</a></li>
</ul>

<div class="tab-content">

<div class="tab-pane active" id="installing-maven">

{% highlight xml %}
<dependencies>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>de.undercouch</groupId>
    <artifactId>citeproc-java</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.0</version>
  </dependency>
</dependencies>
{% endhighlight %}

</div> <!-- tab-pane installing-maven -->

<div class="tab-pane" id="installing-gradle">

{% highlight groovy %}
repositories {
    mavenCentral()
}

dependencies {
    compile 'de.undercouch:citeproc-java:1.0.0'
}
{% endhighlight %}

</div> <!-- tab-pane installing-gradle -->

</div> <!-- tab-content -->

### Installing CSL Styles and locales

In order to use citeproc-java you need three things: the library itself,
the Citation Style Language Styles, and the locales. The [binary bundle](#top)
includes all what you need. However, if you don't use the binary
package (e.g. because you're installing citeproc-java via Maven) you
will need to download the CSL styles and locales.

<div class="alert alert-success" markdown="1">
Please note that without these files the citeproc-java library alone
will be rather useless.
</div>

You can download the styles and locales from the following GitHub repositories:

[https://github.com/citation-style-language/styles](https://github.com/citation-style-language/styles)

[https://github.com/citation-style-language/locales](https://github.com/citation-style-language/locales)

For convenience we provide them as Maven artifacts through
the Sonatype OSS repository. The snapshots are updated daily, so you'll always
get the latest styles and locales.

Add the following snippet to your build file:

<ul class="nav nav-tabs" id="installing-csl-snapshots-tab">
  <li class="active"><a href="#installing-csl-snapshots-maven" data-toggle="tab" class="no-scroll">Maven</a></li>
  <li><a href="#installing-csl-snapshots-gradle" data-toggle="tab" class="no-scroll">Gradle</a></li>
</ul>

<div class="tab-content">

<div class="tab-pane active" id="installing-csl-snapshots-maven">

{% highlight xml %}
<repositories>
  <repository>
    <id>oss-snapshots-repo</id>
    <name>Sonatype OSS Maven Repository</name>
    <url>https://oss.sonatype.org/content/groups/public</url>
    <snapshots>
      <enabled>true</enabled>
      <updatePolicy>always</updatePolicy>
    </snapshots>
  </repository>
</repositories>

<dependencies>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.citationstyles</groupId>
    <artifactId>styles</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.1-SNAPSHOT</version>
  </dependency>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.citationstyles</groupId>
    <artifactId>locales</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.1-SNAPSHOT</version>
  </dependency>
</dependencies>
{% endhighlight %}

</div> <!-- tab-pane installing-csl-snapshots-maven -->

<div class="tab-pane" id="installing-csl-snapshots-gradle">

{% highlight groovy %}
repositories {
    maven {
        url 'https://oss.sonatype.org/content/groups/public'
    }
}

dependencies {
    compile 'org.citationstyles:styles:1.0.1-SNAPSHOT'
    compile 'org.citationstyles:locales:1.0.1-SNAPSHOT'
}
{% endhighlight %}

</div> <!-- tab-pane installing-csl-snapshots-gradle -->

</div> <!-- tab-content -->

I highly recommend using the snapshots of the styles and locales as
these are compiled against CSL 1.0.1 and updated daily. However, if
you need a stable version you may refer to the old CSL 1.0 styles and
locales. They are available at Maven central.

<ul class="nav nav-tabs" id="installing-csl-tab">
  <li class="active"><a href="#installing-csl-maven" data-toggle="tab" class="no-scroll">Maven</a></li>
  <li><a href="#installing-csl-gradle" data-toggle="tab" class="no-scroll">Gradle</a></li>
</ul>

<div class="tab-content">

<div class="tab-pane active" id="installing-csl-maven">

{% highlight xml %}
<dependencies>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.citationstyles</groupId>
    <artifactId>styles</artifactId>
    <version>1.0</version>
  </dependency>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.citationstyles</groupId>
    <artifactId>locales</artifactId>
    <version>1.0</version>
  </dependency>
</dependencies>
{% endhighlight %}

</div> <!-- tab-pane installing-csl-maven -->

<div class="tab-pane" id="installing-csl-gradle">

{% highlight groovy %}
repositories {
    mavenCentral()
}

dependencies {
    compile 'org.citationstyles:styles:1.0'
    compile 'org.citationstyles:locales:1.0'
}
{% endhighlight %}

</div> <!-- tab-pane installing-csl-gradle -->

</div> <!-- tab-content -->
